Most of the time I fill in those
gaps just for the survey, right?
I'm a great believer in surveys and
I use PollFish all the time for
this because I can get
results really quickly and
I can define exactly who my audience is.
I can say I want Welsh people
who pick leeks on a Tuesday.
Maybe not that specific, but
I can pick the kind of people I want, and
I just take those gaps,
those things that I don't feel I know,
turn them into questions, shove that out,
and get people to respond.
If I've got the money to do that, right?
If I don't have the money to do that,
I mean, normally,
I like to send out survey
to like 130 people,
seems to be a number I've randomly settled
on because it's a reasonably big number.
But, of course,
when you go into that number of people and
if I have a lot of questions,
that could be costing me $300, right?
Which I don't always have, right?
So if I don't have that, either,
I'll get the client to send an email
out to existing clients if I can,
right, to their customers,
in which case it's free.
Or failing that,
I might just test with ten people,
something is better than nothing,
remember, right?
A couple of tips if you
ever do run a survey,
cuz people love to pick other
people's surveys apart.
So here's a bit of advice to maybe avoid
getting your surveys picked apart.
Generally, keep them short,
people abandon longer surveys.
And your stakeholders,
they hear you're running a survey,
everyone wants to tag a question on,
right?
So just don't tell them you're running
a survey, [LAUGH] keep it quiet,
keep it stealth, get it out the door,
don't let other people interfere with it,
keep it short, right?
Ask actionable questions.
So ask yourself what you can do with
the answer to that question, right?
If you can't actually act on it,
probably don't ask it, right?
So people love to ask questions
that they want to know.
I feel I need to know how
many times people have used
the service before, right?
I've just made that up.
But what are you gonna do
with that knowledge, right?
Let's say people have
used it never before, or
they've used it five times before or
ten times before,
how does that make a difference
to what you do, right?
Well, maybe it does, maybe if
you've got a lot of power users and
not many new users, you wanna build
your application more for power users.
But unless you know what difference it
would make, what action you would take
based on it, probably,
you don't wanna ask the question.
Do you know what I mean?
We spend so much time waste,
so much time doing
user research that we don't ever
do anything with, so don't do it.
I tend to favor closed questions.
So, reviewing all the answers
to open-ended questions
can be horribly time consuming, right?
So if you ask a multi-choice question,
you can instantly see which
one comes out on top.
If you have that same question
as an open-ended question,
you've now got go through 130
results trying to pick out trends.
That said, it's becoming a little bit
easier these days with AI cuz you can just
take the whole list, dump it into AI and
say, find me trends, [LAUGH] and
summarize this for me, but
it's not as good as closed to questions.
So I tend to, it's just cuz it's easier.
And then like I said earlier,
check your wording, it's easy for
there to be biases or poor choices of
wording, and AI can help with that.
You might meet some barriers
when it comes to surveying.
So I just wanted to kind
of flag those with you.
Because it sounds like it would be really
easy just to throw survey together and
get out the door, but nothing's ever easy,
especially if you work for
a large company.
Data protection is the big one.
And so I always recommend,
keep your surveys anonymous, right?
Never ask people for their email
address or their personal information.
The minute you do, you're gonna run
headlong into compliance issues if
you're a larger organization, and
everything will go into a hole.
So just kind of avoid that if you can.
The other one is is survey fatigue.
So, often the big thing I come up with
cuz I like to ask users stuff a lot,
and I get hit with this problem of,
well, we don't like
to send emails out to everybody all
the time, it annoys them, right?
And so what I would advise you,
if you don't have the ability to directly
email people because you work for
a slightly larger organization
that got rules about this stuff.
Then what you say is,
I wanna send out one email, right,
asking people if they would be willing
to opt in to a user research or
a user consultancy group, or
whatever you wanna call it, right?
And then you get people to opt in to that.
Now, you then end up owning that list,
which means you can email
them from that point on, because they've
given you permission to email them,
that you're not annoying the client base.
You're only annoying the people that have
said, I'm willing to be annoyed, right?
And you are the one that can
send the messages out, so
it saves a lot of time and
a lot of hassle.
But of course,
that only really applies if you work for
slightly bigger customers that have
rules and regulations about this stuff.
The final problem that you'll come
across is poor participation, right?
Especially, this is more of an issue
if you work for smaller clients, right?
So you might get away with the data
protection thing or the survey thing,
but this will come back to bite you.
So, this is why I consider
using a platform like PollFish,
which can recruit participants for you.
So this will get you a long way surveying,
the only downside of
surveying is you don't get to meet
people and interact with people.